Draft Base Spells (01) (#3)
joeabolt/DawnfireRPG: Spells.md

|9 |10 AP|45|110|25|11d6|x9
|10|11 AP|50|120|30|12d6|x10

> ## Spell: Heroism

Author: Colons go inside the bold. Also, no semicolon after Target.

__Tier__: 1; __Element:__ Fire;  
__Casting Time__: 1 AP; __Casting Cost__: 3 [HP Reduction];  
__Range__: Voice; __Duration__: 3 [Rounds]; __Target__: 1 creature  
__Description:__ You point out one ally and speak a short, bold, inspiring incantation, boltering the target's courage and capability. They receive a +2 bonus to any two of the following for the duration, of your choice:

> * Martial attack rolls

Author: Need to clarify where magical weapons (wands/rods/staves) go.

* Martial damage rolls
* Spell attack rolls
* Spell damage rolls
* Armor Class
* Spell Resistance
* Skill checks on one skill you choose

> * Ability checks with one ability you choose

Author: ```suggestion
* Ability checks with one ability score you choose
```

|9 |10 AP|45|190|11d6|x9
|10|11 AP|50|210|12d6|x10

## Shield
__Tier:__ 1; __Element:__ Earth;  
__Casting Time:__ 1 AP; __Casting Cost:__ 5 [HP Reduction];  
__Range:__ Touch; __Duration:__ Sun, or until depleted; __Target:__ 1 creature;  

> __Description:__ You summon a shield-sized plane of [Force] that automatically moves around a creature you designate to protect them against harm. It provides a +2 bonus to AC while active, increased to +4 against ranged attacks. If you are targeted by the Magic Missile spell, the shield automatically negates it - the shield can do this 5 times, after which it is destroyed.

Author: ...you designate, protecting them against harm. It...

> __Description:__ You summon a shield-sized plane of [Force] that automatically moves around a creature you designate to protect them against harm. It provides a +2 bonus to AC while active, increased to +4 against ranged attacks. If you are targeted by the Magic Missile spell, the shield automatically negates it - the shield can do this 5 times, after which it is destroyed.

Author: Change "increased to" to "or"

You can cast this spell above 1st Tier. Each time you increase the tier, do the following:

> * Increase the number of missiles the shield can absorb by 1

Author: ```suggestion
* Increase the number of Magic Missiles the shield can negate by 1
```

You can cast Harm at a higher tier. Each time you increase the tier, do the following:
* Increase the damage by 1d6 when you beat an opponent's SR or they do not resist.
* Either:
    * Increase the casting time by 1 AP, or
    * Increase the casting cost by 5 [HP Reduction].

## Heal
__Tier:__ 1; __Element:__ Water;  
__Casting Time:__ 2 AP; __Casting Cost:__ 5 [HP Reduction];  
__Range:__ Touch; __Duration:__ Instantaneous; __Target:__ 1 creature;  
__Description:__ Your hands glow with warm light as you lay them on the subject. If the target resists, make a spell attack roll against the target's SR. This spell deals 1d6 + your Charisma [Positive] damage, +1d6 [Positive] if the target did not or failed to resist.

You can cast Heal at a higher tier. Each time you increase the tier, do the following:
* Increase the damage by 1d6 when you beat an opponent's SR or they do not resist.
* Either:
    * Increase the casting time by 1 AP, or
    * Increase the casting cost by 5 [HP Reduction].

## Message
__Tier:__ 1; __Element:__ Water;  
__Casting Time:__ 2 AP; __Casting Cost:__ 2 [HP Reduction];  
__Range:__ Eye; __Duration:__ 5 minutes; __Target:__ Up to 3 creatures;  

> __Description:__ With quick, pointed glances you form a telepathic link between up to 3 creatures, possibly including yourself as one of the targets. This spell is silent to cast. Creatures linked telepathically can communicate at any distance. If you cast this spell multiple times, one entire link can be used as a target - allowing you to add 1 or 2 other creatures to it. When used this way, this spell also resets the duration on that link.

Author: ...can be used as a target - this allows you to add...

## Translation
__Tier:__ 2; __Element:__ Water;  
__Casting Time:__ 3 AP; __Casting Cost:__ 10 [HP Reduction];  

> __Range:__ Personal; __Duration:__ Sun; __Target__: You;  

Author: Colon should be inside the bold on Target.

Author: Also, Target should be Self.

|7 |8 AP |35|20|x7
|8 |9 AP |40|25|x8
|9 |10 AP|45|25|x9
|10|11 AP|50|30|x10

## Fog Cloud
__Tier:__ 1; __Element:__ Wood;  
__Casting Time:__ 1 AP; __Casting Cost:__ 3 [HP Reduction];  
__Range:__ 20 ft.; __Duration:__ 3 [Rounds]; __Target:__ 15-ft aura;  
__Description:__ With a hissing sound and a snap of your fingers you call a thick fog bank up from the ground. Adjacent creatures are [Concealed] from one another if either is in the fog, and creatures with 5 feet of fog or more between them are [Fully Concealed]. You have a vague sense of the fog - creatures only ever get [Concealment] against you. The fog can be burned away, and a stout gust of wind disperses it immediately.

You may cast this spell above 1st Tier. Each time you increase the tier, make the following changes:
* Increase the range by 10 feet
* Increase the radius by 5 feet
* Increase the casting cost by 2 [HP Reduction]

> If cast in a particularl fitting situation, such as in a graveyard under a new moon or in the heart of a swamp at dusk, your GM may give you one free Tier increase (even if you could not normally cast at that Tier). This increases the range and radius, but not the cost.

Author: particularly is misspelled

## Haste
__Tier:__ 2; __Element:__ Wood;  
__Casting Time:__ 3 AP; __Casting Cost:__ 7 [HP Reduction];  
__Range:__ Eye; __Duration:__ [Encounter]; __Target:__ 1 creature;  
__Description:__ You lock eyes with the target and magically enhance their metabolism (and give them resistance to friction, et cetera), allowing them to move at increased speeds. Their movement speed increases by 15 feet. When they make 5-foot steps, they may move 5 feet farther. They receive a +1 bonus to AC, SR, and all attack rolls. Lastly, the increased movement speed grants a +4 bonus to Acrobatics checks to jump.

You may cast this spell above 2nd Tier. Each time you increase the tier, make the following changes:
* Increase the number of creatures you can target by 1
* Increase the casting time by 1 AP

> * Increase the casting cost by 12 [HP Reduction]

Author: Blank line at EOF
